Consider two concepts that are often found, and they are often confused with each other.
We have a few minutes to clarify the differences between salt and sodium.
We know that they are related, but I would like to finally clarify what the differences are,
and how to understand all these numerous numbers,
which indicate how much and what should I consume daily.
I love salty. At home I have salt shaker.
She's standing next to a pepper pot,
and I use it very often during lunch.
Sometimes it seems to me that I use too much salt.
I really put a lot of it in food.
So, let's say we have a spoonful of salt.
Let it be a teaspoon of salt.
Imagine that I took this teaspoon of salt and weighed it on the scales.
It turned out that one teaspoon of salt weighs about 6 grams.
Let me write it down. So, about six grams.
And six grams corresponds to 6000 milligrams.
So, this is the mass of one teaspoon of salt.
And now the question arises, how much sodium does it contain?
To answer it, let's remember that salt is sodium chloride, NaCl.
It consists of these two elements.
And if you agree that there is nothing in my salt cell
besides sodium chloride, ants did not get there, for example,
no impurities, only NaCl,
then I can assume that all 6000 milligrams of salt consist only of sodium and chlorine.
Good.
Now, for sure it was clear, this is the sodium part,
and Cl stands for the chloride part, we figured it out.
And they are all atoms, with certain units of atomic mass.
The mass of atoms can be measured and built in size, by weight, from the heaviest to the lightest.
And sodium has a mass of about 23 units,
and chlorine is about 35 units.
So this is chloride, and here is sodium.
Thus, if I want to summarize them, then I will add 23 and 35 and I will receive 58 units as a result.
A unit, I remind you, or, even better, I will write down,
these units are atomic mass.
And now I got the total value of the atomic mass.
I can find out what percentage is sodium, and what percentage is chlorine.
So let's consider the first part, sodium.
I can simply calculate how much 23 units are of a total of 58 units.
These units are shrinking.
And we get about 40%.
And this means that approximately 40% of the salt mass in reality is the sodium part,
and chlorine makes up the rest of the mass.
So, it turned out that 35 units from 58 units is about 60%.
And again, the units are reduced, and we get 60%.
So now we know that in salt 40% of the total mass is sodium, and 60% is chloride.
It's clear.
And now I would like to go back to my teaspoon again.
A teaspoon contains 6 grams, or 6000 milligrams of salt.
To determine the mass of each element in a teaspoon, I can simply multiply 6,000 by these indicators,
to calculate what part of the mass is sodium, and which is chlorine.
So, sodium is 40% of 6000, which, if you multiply these two values, will give you 2400 milligrams of sodium.
And 60% from 6000 gives 3600 milligrams of chlorine.
And now I learned that a teaspoon contains 2,400 milligrams of sodium.
I specifically reviewed a variety of recommendations that state
how much sodium you should get from your diet,
if you are missing any serious illnesses.
I will write it this way: normal daily salt intake, or a normal amount.
I'll write it down.
And this is the usual amount, this is the normal salt content,
and here is the low salt content.
It will be low in salt.
And if you are on a low salt diet,
then you can calculate how much salt you can or should consume.
The same is true for normal consumption.
What amount of salt you should consume in normal diet.
And I'm going to follow both rations in terms of salt,
and in terms of sodium.
So let's look first in terms of salt.
The normal amount you should be getting - let me write down "per day."
And now let's do the calculations for sodium and right here for the salt.
So the usual amount of sodium you should get per day,
is about 2300 milligrams.
And if you are on a low-salt diet, you should get about 1,500 milligrams.
Now we know that 1 teaspoon contains 2400 milligrams and 2400
and 2300, I suppose, very close values.
So with that in mind, I can assume that
This means that I can eat about one teaspoon of salt per day.
With a low-salt diet, you are advised to consume no more than 1,500 milligrams of sodium.
And if one teaspoon contains 2400 milligrams of sodium,
then 1500 is 2/3 of it, that is, it is about 2/3 teaspoon of salt.
I'll write it down too.
Let's go back to our teaspoon of salt,
now we know and remember that if i stick
normal diet, I can consume one spoon daily,
not with every meal, but every day.
And if I follow a diet low in salt, then I can fill it with only 2/3 of the volume, and not more,
not to exceed the recommended amount.
Subtitles by the Amara.org community